TF-M: Add secure peripheral configuration and sample (#7148)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/tfm/tfm_secure_peripheral/README.rst

.. _tfm_secure_peripheral_partition:

TF-M Secure Peripheral Partition Sample
#######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The TF-M Secure Peripheral Partition Sample shows how to configure and use secure peripherals in a TF-M partition.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

> The sample also requires a logic analyzer.

Author: No, anything that can observe the debug pins. We use this wording in other places, I re-used this sentence.

Overview
********

A Secure Partition is an isolated module that residen in TF-M.
It Exposes a number of functions or "Secure Services" to other partition and/or to the non-secure firmware.
TF-M already contains standard partitions such as crypto, protected storage and firmwar update, but it's also possible to create your own partitions.

This demonstrates how to configure peripherals as secure peripherals and use them in the secure partition.
In this way the peripheral is only accessible from the secure domain, or only accesible from the secure partition with isolation level 2 or higher.

The partitios is located in the ``secure_peripheral_partition`` directory.
It contains the partition sources, build files and build configuration files.
The partision is built by the TF-M build system, refer to :ref:`tfm_build_system` for more details.

> For more information on how to add custom secure partitions refer to TF-M's guide: https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/docs/integration_guide/services/tfm_secure_partition_addition.html

Author: that is the same page, but hosted by NCS instead, right? Then yes we should use that URL instead. 

Will add it to links.txt

For more information on how to add custom secure partitions refer to `TF-M secure partition integration guide`_.

Configuration
*************

In order to configure a peripheral as secure, the peripheral must be enabled and assigned to the partition, and any interrupt signals must be defined.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

|config|

```
We always use the stock phrase that is included with |config| in the Configuration section.

This adds the following text:
See [Configuring your application](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/gs_modifying.html#configure-application) for information about how to permanently or temporarily change the configuration.

> In order to configure a peripheral as secure the peripheral must be enabled and assigned to the partition, and any interrupt signels must be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to configure a peripheral as secure, the peripheral must be enabled and assigned to the partition, and any interrupt signals must be defined.
```

> Secure Peripheral
> =================
> 
> In order to start using a peripheral as a secure peripheral it must first be enable to be used in the secure domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure peripheral
=================

To start using a peripheral as a secure peripheral, it must first be enabled for use in the secure domain.
```

.. code-block:: none

	CONFIG_NRF_TIMER1_SECURE=y
        CONFIG_NRF_SPIM3_SECURE=y
        CONFIG_NRF_GPIOTE0_SECURE=y

> In order to use GPIO pins or DPPI channels with secure peripherals they must be assigned as secure pins or channels
> This is done with a bitmask, for example to assign GPIO pin 23 as secure:
> 
> .. code-block:: none
> 
> 	CONFIG_NRF_GPIO0_PIN_MASK_SECURE=0x00800000
> 
> In addition the peripheral must be assigned to the specific partition in the partition manifest file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use GPIO pins or DPPI channels with secure peripherals, assign them as secure pins or channels.
This is done with a bitmask, for example to assign GPIO pin 23 as secure:

.. code-block:: none

	CONFIG_NRF_GPIO0_PIN_MASK_SECURE=0x00800000

In addition, the peripheral must be assigned to the specific partition in the partition manifest file:
```

.. code-block:: none

        "mmio_regions": [
                {
                        "name": "TFM_PERIPHERAL_TIMER1",
                        "permission": "READ-WRITE"
                },
        ]

> Secure Interrupt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure interrupt
```

================

> If the secure peripheral generates interrupts the interrupt needs to be integrated with TF-Ms interrupt mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the secure peripheral generates interrupts, the interrupt needs to be integrated with TF-Ms interrupt mechanism.
```

The interrupt source and handling type needs to be defined in the partition manifest file:

.. code-block:: none

        "irqs": [
                {
                        "source": "TFM_TIMER1_IRQ",
                        "name": "TFM_TIMER1_IRQ",
                        "handling": "FLIH"
                },
        ]

> If the type of interrupt handling is defined as First Level Interrupt Handling (FLIH) then the FLIH handler needs to be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the type of interrupt handling is defined as the First Level Interrupt Handling (FLIH), then the FLIH handler needs to be defined.
```

The return value specifies if the Second Level Interrupt Handling signal should be asserted or not.

.. code-block:: c

        psa_flih_result_t tfm_timer1_irq_flih(void)
        {
                /* Application specific handling */

                if (condition) {
                        return PSA_FLIH_SIGNAL;
                } else {
                        return PSA_FLIH_NO_SIGNAL;
                }
        }

> If the type of interrupt handling is defined as Second Level Interrupt Handling (SLIH) or the FLIH handler specifies the signal to be raised the interrupt is sent to the partition as a signal.
> The way to clear a interrupt signal depends on the type of interrupt handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the type of interrupt handling is defined as the Second Level Interrupt Handling (SLIH), or the FLIH handler specifies the signal to be raised, the interrupt is sent to the partition as a signal.
How to clear an interrupt signal depends on the type of interrupt handling.
```

.. code-block:: c

        if (signals & TFM_TIMER1_IRQ_SIGNAL) {
                /* Application specific handling */

                /* FLIH: Reset signal */
                psa_reset_signal(TFM_TIMER1_IRQ_SIGNAL);
        }

        if (signals & TFM_SPIM3_IRQ_SIGNAL) {
                /* Application specific handling */

                /* SLIH: End of Interrupt signal */
                psa_eoi(TFM_SPIM3_IRQ_SIGNAL);
        }

.. note::

>         TF-M interrupt signals only asserts the signal but does not schedule the partition to run.
>         In cases where the interrupt signal is preempting the non-secure execution the interrupt signal will not be processed until next time the partition is scheduled to run.
>         The sample demonstrates a workaround for this limitation by triggering an EGU0 interrupt in the non-secure firmware which calls the secure partition to process the interrupt signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        TF-M interrupt signals only assert the signal but do not schedule the partition to run.
        In cases where the interrupt signal is preempting the non-secure execution, the interrupt signal is not processed until the next time the partition is scheduled to run.
        The sample demonstrates a workaround for this limitation by triggering an EGU0 interrupt in the non-secure firmware which calls the secure partition to process the interrupt signals.
```

Building and Running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/tfm/tfm_secure_peripheral`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

> Testing

Reviewer 2: Why is the logic analyzer needed? Can't you verify the behavior by looking at this console output?

Author: It's not required, the sample demonstrates using SPI in secure. A logic analyzer can be used to see some pin toggling of "random" data.

Will have to check with the testers how best to proceed with this.

=======

The sample displays the following output in the console from the non-secure firmware:

.. code-block:: console

        SPP: send message: Success
        SPP: process signals: Success

The sample displays the following output in the console from the non-secure firmware:

.. code-block:: console

        IRQ: GPIOTE0 count: 0x00000002
        IRQ: TIMER1 count: 0x00000001
        IRQ: GPIOTE0 count: 0x00000003
        IRQ: TIMER1 count: 0x00000002

> In addition the sample sends a hash as text output using SPI on two GPIO pins.
> Connect a logic analyzer to the pins that are used for SPI output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the sample sends a hash as a text output using SPI on two GPIO pins.
Connect a logic analyzer to the pins that are used for the SPI output.
```
